NAME
    Lingua::Stem::UniNE - University of Neuchâtel stemmers

VERSION
    This document describes Lingua::Stem::UniNE version 0.00_1.

SYNOPSIS
        use Lingua::Stem::UniNE;

        my $stemmer = Lingua::Stem::UniNE->new('bg');

        my @stems = $stemmer->stem(@words);

DESCRIPTION
    This is a collection of stemmers for multiple languages based on
    algorithms by Jacques Savoy et al. of the University of Neuchâtel.
    Currently only the Bulgarian, Czech, and Persian stemmers are
    implemented. Work is ongoing for Arabic, Bengali, Czech, Finnish,
    French, German, Hindi, Hungarian, Italian, Persian, Portuguese, Marathi,
    Russian, Spanish, and Swedish. The top priority is languages for which
    there are no stemmers available on CPAN.

    Comments on stemmers from UniNE
        In proposing stemmers for other languages than English, we think
        that a “light” stemmer (removing inflections only for noun and
        adjectives) presents some advantages. Our stemming procedure for
        French is described in (Savoy, 1999). In Italian, the main
        inflectional rule is to modify the final character (e.g., «-o», «-a»
        or «-e») into another (e.g., «-i», «-e»). As a second rule, Italian
        morphology may also alter the final two letters (e.g., «-io» in
        «-o», «-co» in «-chi», «-ga» in «-ghe»). In German, a few rules may
        be applied to obtain the plural form of words (e.g., “Frau” into
        “Frauen” (woman), “Bild” into “Bilder” (picture), “Sohn” into
        “Söhne” (son), “Apfel” into “Äpfel” (apple)), but the suggested
        algorithms do not account for person and tense variations, or for
        the morphological variations used by verbs (we think that indexing
        verbs for Italian, French or German is not of primary importance
        compared to nouns and adjectives).

SEE ALSO
    *   <IR Multilingual Resources at UniNE>

    *   Lingua::Stem

    *   Lingua::Stem::Snowball

ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
    The stemmers included are based on the algorithms and original
    implementations by Jacques Savoy and Ljiljana Dolamic of the University
    of Neuchâtel.

AUTHOR
    Nick Patch <patch@cpan.org>

COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE
    © 2012 Nick Patch

    This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
    under the terms of the BSD License.

